welcome to simply gardening this week we
have a great show planned for you we're
going to visit long brothers building
supply for those last-minute projects
before the weather totally changes on us
we're also going to show you one of my
favorite conifers for a cool plant pick
of the week stay with us welcome to
simply gardening anybody can do it and
here's your host garden expert Mallory
Gwynn I love star Jasmine it's just a
really nice plant for a lot of different
reasons
you can use this plant as a ground cover
you can keep it pruned back for a shrub
or as it comes sometimes in your
independent garden centers you can see
it right here that's trained on a flat
trellis and that's what's nice about
this plant is so versatile well
sometimes when you get them on the
trellis you really don't know how to
keep it in shape you can see it's kind
of getting like Medusa in fact as cool
and clear up around the gutter and you
really don't want that to happen so what
I like to do on this is first of all I
just take a look at how they did it you
see what they did is they just took the
green tape that you can find at your
independent garden centers and they just
kind of spread it out over the trellis
itself and then tied it to the trials
not tight keep it loose so you don't
throttle the plant at all but that's
what all we're going to do to keep it in
shape the first thing I do is I do the
time before I do the cutting in that way
I know what to cut a little bit later on
so let's do some tying up right now
now once in a while you have one of
these that's grow into the backside of
the trellis so what you can do is just
very gingerly pull it out of the window
like that and feed that tip right
through the trellis back through like
that without breaking it and then you
really have it back to the front where
you want it and it doesn't harm the
plant you can just kind of retrain it to
be in front like that so we're keeping
this plant two dimensionally just up and
flat like this nothing growing to the
backside I noticed as I was doing this
there's a rogue branch it's kind of
grown to the backside so don't be afraid
to take larger cuts off like this just
take it off it's okay
and throw it away and now that it's all
tied up to the trellis now I can go
ahead and do the rest of the pruning I
need to do
okay you can see that I'm going to leave
some of this down here that is in order
just to cover the pot up it gives it a
little bit of softer look down here and
I went ahead and cut this you can see it
bleeding right here a little bit that's
okay
you might want to wear just latex gloves
or or your regular guard gloves if
you're at all sensitive to things like
that and of course we just have to pull
this out of the gutter and the downspout
here actually and you can see now all
we've done really is followed what the
original manufacturer of this particular
plant and how it's grown that we just
followed what they did this is very
simple to do you can do it right at home